The exact causes of World War II are debated, but contributing factors included
the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, the Spanish Civil War, the Second Sino-Japanese
War, the Soviet–Japanese border conflicts and rising European tensions since
World War I. World War II is generally considered to have begun on 1 September
1939, when Nazi Germany, under Adolf Hitler, invaded Poland. The United Kingdom
and France subsequently declared war on Germany on 3 September. Under the
Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact of August 1939, Germany and the Soviet Union had
partitioned Poland and marked out their "spheres of influence" across Finland,
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania. From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series
of campaigns and treaties, Germany conquered or controlled much of continental
Europe, and formed the Axis alliance with Italy and Japan (along with other
countries later on). Following the onset of campaigns in North Africa and East
Africa, and the fall of France in mid-1940, the war continued primarily between
the European Axis powers and the British Empire, with war in the Balkans, the 
aerial Battle of Britain, the Blitz of the UK, and the Battle of the Atlantic. 
On 22 June 1941,Germany led the European Axis powers in an invasion of the Soviet
Union, opening the Eastern Front, the largest land theatre of war in history.
vu.lt
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36200138/regex-to-find-all-matches-of-urls-in-text

Japan, which aimed to dominate Asia and the Pacific, was at war with the Republic
of China by 1937. In December 1941, Japan attacked American and British territories
with near-simultaneous offensives against Southeast Asia and the Central Pacific,
including an attack on the US fleet at Pearl Harbor which resulted in the United
States declaring war against Japan. Therefore, the European Axis powers declared
war on the United States in solidarity. Japan soon captured much of the western 
Pacific, but its advances were halted in 1942 after losing the critical Battle of 
Midway; later, Germany and Italy were defeated in North Africa and at Stalingrad in 
the Soviet Union. Key setbacks in 1943—including a series of German defeats on the 
Eastern Front, the Allied invasions of Sicily and the Italian mainland, and Allied 
offensives in the Pacific—cost the Axis powers their initiative and forced them 
into strategic retreat on all fronts. In 1944, the Western Allies invaded 
German-occupied France, while the Soviet Union regained its territorial losses and 
turned towards Germany and its allies. During 1944 and 1945, Japan suffered reversals 
in mainland Asia, while the Allies crippled the Japanese Navy and captured key western 
Pacific islands.